Release 4.2 dev3 and publish release notes (#689)
godotengine/godot-website: collections/_article/dev-snapshot-godot-4-2-dev-3.md

---
title: "Dev snapshot: Godot 4.2 dev 3"
excerpt: "One month into the release cycle for Godot 4.2, things are well under way. This third dev snapshot features a lot of improvements to C# and rendering."
categories: ["pre-release"]
author: Rémi Verschelde
image: /storage/blog/covers/dev-snapshot-godot-4-2-dev-3.webp
image_caption_title: ""
image_caption_description: ""
date: 2023-08-11 13:00:00
---

> Development is well under way for our next milestone, Godot 4.2. After our [dev 2 snapshot](/article/dev-snapshot-godot-4-2-dev-2/), we kept merging a number of new features and important bug fixes, so we're ready for a third dev snapshot to put those under broader user testing. It's been around a month since we started this release cycle, with roughly two months to go for 4.2 beta 1, and a fourth month to reach stable in early November 2023.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Development is well under way for our next milestone, Godot 4.2. After our [dev 2 snapshot](/article/dev-snapshot-godot-4-2-dev-2/), we kept merging new features and important bug fixes, and gathered quite a number of them — so now we're ready for the third dev snapshot to put those under broader user testing. It's been around a month since we started this release cycle, with roughly two months to go until 4.2 beta 1, and then another month to reach stable in early November 2023.
```

> I'd like to outline the amazing work done by the [Production team](https://godotengine.org/teams/#production), and especially by Yuri Sizov, who took care of PR reviews, merges, and the whole release process while I was on holiday in the second half of July. Godot 4.1.1, the first two dev snapshots for 4.2, and 4.0.4, were all fully handled by Yuri, while I used to be the sole responsible for making and publishing releases. We're now fully sharing the role of release manager, and that should enable us to keep this sustained pace with a high quality standard.

Reviewer: ❤️

```suggestion
I'd like to outline the amazing work done by the [Production team](https://godotengine.org/teams/#production), and especially by Yuri Sizov, who took care of PR reviews, merges, and the whole release process while I was on holiday in the second half of July. Godot 4.1.1, the first two dev snapshots for 4.2, and 4.0.4, — were all fully handled by Yuri. While I used to be the sole responsible for making and publishing releases, we're now fully sharing the role of release manager. That should enable us to keep this sustained pace with a high quality standard.
```

I'm not sure about the "while I used to be" and how it fits in the previous sentence, so I suggest separating it.

> I'd like to outline the amazing work done by the [Production team](https://godotengine.org/teams/#production), and especially by Yuri Sizov, who took care of PR reviews, merges, and the whole release process while I was on holiday in the second half of July. Godot 4.1.1, the first two dev snapshots for 4.2, and 4.0.4, were all fully handled by Yuri, while I used to be the sole responsible for making and publishing releases. We're now fully sharing the role of release manager, and that should enable us to keep this sustained pace with a high quality standard.

Reviewer 2: "I used to be the sole responsible for" would be better as e.g. "I used to have sole responsibility for" or "I used to be solely responsible for".

Author: "solely responsible" means that it would be my only responsibility, no? What I mean is that I was the only one having that responsibility (but I had and still have dozen other responsibilities in this project).

*Edit:* Checked dictionary, "solely responsible" seems to convey what I wanted.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, it maybe could be confusing. I'm not sure of a better choice of words at the moment. But "the sole responsible" is not right - unless you meant "the soul responsible"!

> Back on that dev 3 snapshot, here are some of the highlights in 4.2 dev 3, with a bigger list available [below](#whats-new):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Back to the today's development snapshot, here are some of the highlights of 4.2 dev 3, with a bigger list available [below](#whats-new):
```

> Back to the today's development snapshot, here are some of the highlights of 4.2 dev 3, with a bigger list available [below](#whats-new):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Back to today's development snapshot, here are some of the highlights of 4.2 dev 3, with a bigger list available [below](#whats-new):
```

Author: Thanks, fixed.

> - Initial support for C# on Android has been merged ([GH-73257](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/73257))! It's still a work in progress, with caveats outlined in the PR, and we haven't had time to look into what it takes to provide official Android export templates for the .NET build. So at this time you'll have to try compiling templates from source and provide feedback on what works or doesn't.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Initial support for C# on Android has been merged ([GH-73257](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/73257))! It's still a work in progress, with caveats outlined in the PR, and we haven't had time to look into what it takes to provide official Android export templates for the .NET build. So at this time you'll have to try compiling templates from source and provide feedback on what works and what doesn't.
```

> - The long-awaited 2D HDR rendering is now implemented ([GH-80215](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/80215)). This makes it possible to use 3D effects such as glow in 2D games, and can be used to substantially improve quality of 2D rendering at the cost of performance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The long-awaited 2D HDR rendering is now implemented ([GH-80215](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/80215)). This makes it possible to use 3D effects such as glow in 2D games, and can be used to substantially improve quality of 2D rendering at the cost of performance. Use the `rendering/viewport/hdr_2d` project setting to enable HDR in 2D. Note: this setting only has an effect when using the Forward+ or Mobile rendering methods.
```

> - The long-awaited 2D HDR rendering is now implemented ([GH-80215](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/80215)). This makes it possible to use 3D effects such as glow in 2D games, and can be used to substantially improve quality of 2D rendering at the cost of performance.

Reviewer: Work a mention that it's Vulkan only? Some users have been disappointed already that it doesn't work in the compatibility mode. cc @clayjohn

Reviewer: Addressed in Clay's comment above.

> - More rendering goodies have been merged, such as ShaderRD compilation groups ([GH-79606](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/79606)), the ability to call code on the render thread ([GH-79696](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/79696)), or performance fixes around depth prepass ([GH-80070](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/80070)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- More rendering goodies have been merged, such as ShaderRD compilation groups ([GH-79606](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/79606)), the ability to call code on the render thread ([GH-79696](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/79696)), and performance fixes around depth prepass ([GH-80070](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/80070)).
```

> - A lot of work is happening behind the scene around Viewport mouse handling, starting with [GH-67791](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/67791) and numerous follow-ups for platform-specific adjustments. You may expect some instability while we notice and iron out the consequence of these changes, so be sure to report any crash or improper mouse/GUI behavior in this build.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A lot of work is happening behind the scene around Viewport mouse handling, starting with [GH-67791](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/67791) and numerous follow-ups for platform-specific adjustments. You may expect some instability while we take note of and iron out the consequence of these changes, so be sure to report any crash or improper mouse/GUI behavior in this build.
```

- A very popular feature proposal was implemented to improve the editing of box collision shapes ([GH-71092](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/71092)), allowing to extend the box size one face at a time.

- Alongside bugfixing, some optimization work is being done on GDScript, starting with operators ([GH-79990](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/79990)).

Keep in mind that while we try to make sure each dev snapshot is stable enough for general testing, this is by definition a pre-release piece of software. Be sure to make frequent backups, or use a version control system such as Git, to preserve your projects in a case of corruption or data loss.

[Jump to the **Downloads** section](#downloads), and give it a spin right now, or continue reading to learn more about improvements in this release. You can also [try the **Web editor**](https://editor.godotengine.org/releases/4.2.dev3/) or the **Android editor** for this release. If you are interested in the latter, please request to join [our testing group](https://groups.google.com/g/godot-testers) to get access to pre-release builds.

-----

> TODO

Reviewer 3: Reminder to delete this before posting!

> TODO

Reviewer: TODOded.
